---
title: Events
layout: page
parent: Documentation
---

# Events

XI uses a custom event system because of difficulties with simulating events with the UITK event system. With only using he UITK event system it is difficult to take control of event propagation and dispatching, simulating actions based on custom input, and simulating focus and capture actions with a world-space (non screen-space) UI system. So, a series of "Controllers" were made to dispatch events and execute UI actions without using UITK.

Events are broken down into the following categories:
1. Input Events: created directly from inputs
2. Intermediate Events: additional input types generated from input events
3. Interface Events: created internally within UI elements or manipulators

### Input Events
There are two types of input events: (1) CursorEvent and (2) FocalEvent. Cursor events are input events from cursors interacting with a document. FocalEvents are code events from keyboard, that are sent only to the focused document.

Input events can be generated by providing inputs to the XIManager. Call `XIManager.AddPointerInput` and `XIManager.AddKeyInput` on Update with input states for any appropriate device.

Inputs can also be simulated by sending custom input events with `XIManager.Dispatch` functions. This is useful, for example, when creating a custom keyboard that should send code events when virtual buttons are "pushed".

### Handling Events
Events are handled in a similar way as UITK. Call `RegisterCallback` with the approate XIEvent to execute actions when this event is received.

